# Child-Safety-Wearable-Device
A wearable sensing device for child safety tracking by the parent. 

Child care is a necessity for most working families, and millions of parents across the world are concerned about it each day. Children, in particular, are vulnerable to accidents, and their safety requires different approaches. In the early 21st century, approximately one million children worldwide died each year from accidental injuries, with about 95 percent of those injury-related deaths taking place in low and middle-income countries. Therefore, child safety is increasing in importance day-by-day. Wearables are electronic technology devices incorporated into items that can be comfortably worn on a body. These wearable devices are used for tracking information on real time basis. They have motion sensors that take the snapshot of the day-to-day activities and sync them with mobile devices or laptop computers. The use of wearables with proximity sensors can help mitigate this risk. These wearables are designed to monitor each and every move of the child by the parent and ensure their safety. 

At the moment there are many wearables in the market which help track the daily activity of children and also help find the child using Wi-Fi and Bluetooth services present on the device. But Wi-Fi and Bluetooth appear to be an unreliable medium of communication between the parent and child. Therefore, the focus is to have an SMS text enabled communication medium between the child's wearable and the parent as the environment for GSM mobile communication is almost present everywhere. The parent can send a text with specific keywords such as "LOCATION" or "TEMPERATURE" or "UV" or "SOS" or "BUZZ", etc., the wearable device will reply back with a text containing the real time accurate location of the child which upon tapping will provide directions to the child's location on google maps app and will also provide the surrounding temperature, UV radiation index so that the parents can keep track if the temperature or UV radiation is not suitable for the child.
